Add a new challenge to verify `CStr` (#151)
model-checking/verify-rust-std: doc/src/challenges/0013-cstr.md

# Challenge 13: Safety of `CStr`

- **Status:** Open
- **Solution:**
- **Tracking Issue:** [#150](https://github.com/model-checking/verify-rust-std/issues/150)
- **Start date:** 2024/11/04
- **End date:** 2025/01/31

-------------------
## Goal

Verify that `CStr` safely represents a borrowed reference to a null-terminated array of bytes sequences similar to
the C string representation.

## Motivation

The `CStr` structure is meant to be used to build safe wrappers of FFI functions that may leverage `CStr::as_ptr`
and the unsafe `CStr::from_ptr` constructor to provide a safe interface to other consumers.
It provides safe methods to convert `CStr` to a Rust `&str` by performing UTF-8 validation, or into an owned `CString`.

Any issue with this structure or misusage of its unsafe methods could trigger an invalid memory access, which poses
a security risk for their users.

## Description

> The goal of this challenge is to ensure the safety of the CStr struct implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this challenge is to ensure the safety of the `CStr` struct implementation.
```

First, we need to specify a safety invariant that captures the essential safety properties that must be maintained.

Next, we should verify that all the safe, public methods respect this invariant.
For example, we can check that creating a `CStr` from a byte slice with method `from_bytes_with_nul` will only yield
safe values of `CStr`.

> Finally, for unsafe methods like `as_ptr()` and `from_ptr()`, we need to specify appropriate safety contracts.

Reviewer: `as_ptr` is a safe method. Did you mean something else?

Author: oops... let me fix that

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, for unsafe methods like `from_ptr()` and `from_bytes_with_nul_unchecked`, we need to specify appropriate safety contracts.
```

These contracts should ensure no undefined behavior occurs within the unsafe methods themselves,
and that they maintain the overall safety invariant of `CStr` when called correctly.

### Assumptions

- Harnesses may be bounded.

### Success Criteria

1. Implement the `Invariant` trait for `CStr`.

> 2. Verify that the `CStr` safety invariant holds after calling any of the following public safe methods.

Reviewer: Shouldn't it hold after calling the public unsafe methods as well?

Author: yes, I mention that above: 
> These contracts should ensure no undefined behavior occurs within the unsafe methods themselves,
and that they maintain the overall safety invariant of `CStr` when called correctly.

Any issue with this structure or misusage of its unsafe methods could trigger an invalid memory access, which poses
a security risk for their users.

## Description

The goal of this challenge is to ensure the safety of the `CStr` struct implementation.
First, we need to specify a safety invariant that captures the essential safety properties that must be maintained.

Next, we should verify that all the safe, public methods respect this invariant.
For example, we can check that creating a `CStr` from a byte slice with method `from_bytes_with_nul` will only yield
safe values of `CStr`.

Finally, for unsafe methods like `from_ptr()` and `from_bytes_with_nul_unchecked`, we need to specify appropriate safety contracts.
These contracts should ensure no undefined behavior occurs within the unsafe methods themselves,
and that they maintain the overall safety invariant of `CStr` when called correctly.

### Assumptions

- Harnesses may be bounded.

### Success Criteria

1. Implement the `Invariant` trait for `CStr`.

2. Verify that the `CStr` safety invariant holds after calling any of the following public safe methods.

> | Function               | Location           |

Reviewer 2: There is another public safe method `as_ptr`, why isn't it in the list?

Author: Sure, I can add it. I was trying to add things that either performed some unsafe operation, modified or produced an object.
